ABUYOG COMMUNITY   COLLEGE
Abuyog Leyte





LIBRARY INFORMATION SERVICES




LIBRARY SERVICE MANUAL



















INTRODUCTION
The Abuyog Community College Library is an integral part of the College which aims to provide effective informational support for the curriculum and for the scholarly and creative accomplishment of the students and faculty. It also serves as the venue for the students, faculty and staff members to keep abreast with current development in their field of interest. 

VISSION: 
The Abuyog Community College (ACC) library envisions to provide e-library for prompt and precise information resources and exceptional library services to achieve personal, educational, and professional growth.

MISSION:
To develop students' skills and resourcefulness in the use of books and libraries, and encourage the habit of personal investigation.

Library Objectives:
* To acquire books and other materials in line with the demands of the curriculum, and to encourage students and teachers to effectively use these materials.

* Develop the essential library operation skills needed in the efficient and effective operations of libraries.
* To develop students' library skills and resourcefulness in the use of books and other library facilities, and to encourage their habit of personal investigation.

* To help students establish a wide range of significant interest in library work.
Keep abreast with the speedy growth and development of modern technology.
o acquires books and other materials in line with the demands.

LIBRARY HOURS
The College Library is open on the following days and hours except SATURDAY, SUNDAY and PUBLIC HOLIDAYS.
	
During Regular School Days:
      Monday- Friday	8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m
 During Sumer Terms:
            Monday- Friday	8:00 am - 5:00 p.m.	





ADMINISTRATION

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
                                     




A. LIBRARY COMMITTEE

The Library Committee is composed of the College President as Chairman, Vice-President for Academic Affairs as Vice- Chairman, the dean of the College of Education, the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, the dean of the College of Management and Entrepreneurship, and the dean of the Graduate School, together with the president of the Supreme Student Council and the ACC Librarians. The Council has the responsibility to make plans on library matters. The Council meets once every semester but emergency meeting maybe called by the Chairman as the need arises. 
Other Functions of the Library Committee are as follows: 

1. To guide the librarian in formulating general library policies and regulations which govern the functions of the library, including the preparation of budget proposal;
2. To provide for proper documentation services and updating library collection;
3. To work toward the modernization and improvement of Library and Documentation Services;
4. To formulate policies and procedure for efficient use of Library resources;
5.To review, monitor and review library efficiency/ function, usage and performance in terms of accomplishment of goals indicated in the Library Development Plan.
6.To adopt/ take measures to enhance readership;
7.Participate in regular meetings with Librarian concerning library related problems and suggestions;
8. Over all advice Library of specific findings, issues, problems and concerns related to the library and make recommendation to library related matters.

B. LIBRARY STAFF
The staff is composed of two (2) licensed librarians, and three (3) Library assistants.

D. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LIBRARY STAFF
1. LIBRARIAN 1
* Coordinates with the Librarian II in planning, administrative and budgetary function of library and information services;
* Assist in the development of plans and programs, troubleshoot and maintain a library system including library cataloging, library books/materials accession and library utilization policies, standard operation and procedures;
* Provide and maintain information in many formats re: physical books; electronic resources (if any); magazines; journals; newspaper, audio and video recordings; maps; manuscripts; photographs and other graphics materials; bibliographic databases; and web-based and digital resources;
*  Help institute, innovate and adopt library reforms and changes that will upgrades the library services of the school in consultation with the President and management of the college;
* Perform all other tasks that may be assigned by superior from time to time.

* Assists OJT students in their daily activities; and 
*  Does other related works as requested

2. LIBRARIAN 2
* Render general supervision of all personnel and library services;
* Formulates and administers Library policies, rules and regulations;
* Prepares annual budget and proposes plan for academic year:
* Retrieves faculty records of books borrowed. 
* Signs clearance of faculty, students, alumni who are applying for transcript of record and those who retire or separate from the service. 
* Maintains accreditation documents for all programs. 
* Coordinates with the Supply Office and Disposal Committee in the condemnation 
or disposal of books and other materials.

3.  LIBRARY ASSISTANTS
      a. Assist Librarian in all Library matters and tasks;
b. Ensure proper shelving of library materials:
c. Input and encode books, library materials and other acquisitions of the library into the             Accession book and Inventory Registrar.
d. Organize and arrange books shelves;
e. Release and record books as may be authorized by immediate supervisor;
f. Maintain the orderliness and cleanliness of the library
g. Provide assistance to students in searching for reference materials,

POLICIES
A. General rules in borrowing of books  
1.The books and other reading materials are classified according to where they belong: Reserve Section, Filipiniana Section, Circulation Section and Periodical Section.
2. General references (dictionaries, encyclopedia, maps, atlas, gazetteers), periodicals, vertical files (pamphlets, clippings, journals, single copy of books, thesis and dissertations are for LIBRARY use only therefore cannot be loaned out. Photocopying is allowed, provided conditions in photocopying of said materials are met.
3. Books in the Reserve Section are only allowed for library and not allowed for overnight use, hence, student can borrow books in the said section by presenting their borrowers card to the one in-charge and be returned once he/she returned the books. 
4. Books borrowed on Friday will be returned in Monday.
5. A bonafide user, which includes faculty, personnel and students are prohibited to borrow books for the purpose lending it to others without prior consent of the libraries.
6. In the case of the loss of borrowed library materials as much as possible it should be replaced with exactly the same library materials, i.e., the same title, author, and edition; if unavailable, the present price of which shall paid within 30 days. In event that the current price is not known, the following computation is observed. Five (5) pesos per page, for locally published books. Twenty (20) pesos per for foreign books, or five (5) pesos per page for other library materials.
7. Fines and other library obligation should be settled with the librarian or library in-charge before or during the signing for current semester. Failure or refusal to need may mean to forfeiture of library privileges.
8. The money collected from fines shall be recorded accordingly, a copy of which shall be furnished to the Office of the College President and College Registrar for their information and reference.  However, the amount shall be used for the purchase of needed library facilities with approval of the College President.

 B. Terms of Use and Borrowing Books 
* Circulation Books (Circulation and Filipiniana Section)
* Books in the General Collection may be loaned for overnight use.
* Borrowed books are renewable for the following day
* No more than two (2) books may be borrowed at a time.	
* A valid borrower's card is required upon borrowing.
C.    Library Policies in the New normal
1. Library hours are from 8:00 a.m.-12:00 noon and 1:00-5:00 p.m. (noon break will be implemented for the librarian in duty if there will be alternating).
2. At the entrance of the library door there will be a log book for students for them to fill the information regarding their respective degree program, time of visit, and the date.
3. Number of students who may allowed to enter the library will be limited to 20 students in the reading area. In the e-library and the reserve section, the number of students allowed to use the area will be limited to 4 students. 
4. There will be a waiting area outside the library entrance with 5 chairs for the students to occupy while waiting for the other individuals to exit the premises. The chairs will be 1 meter apart from each other to practice and maintain physical distancing.
5. Inside the library, aisles will be designated for one-way traffic using signage both on aisle end-caps and on the floors. Tables and chairs will be tape-off so that students and faculty members sit a safe distance from each other.
6. Always wear your school I.D. and the prescribed school uniform.
7. Safety reminders in visiting the school library are the following: body temperature will check before entering the premises of the school grounds, wear mask at all times, wash your hands with  soap and running water, sanitize using 70% alcohol solution if soap and water are not available, observe physical distancing, avoid physical contact with other student if necessary, avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth when hands aren't washed yet or sanitized, and lastly cover your mouth and nose with bent elbow or tissue in coughing/sneezing. All safety reminders will be strictly implemented. This information will be print and posted in the entrance and every corner in the library.
8. Deposit your things at the bags counter upon entering the library. You may bring your valuables (wallet, cellphone, laptop, and the like).
9. Help maintain a quite atmosphere for research. Silence in the library must be observed at all times.
10. Refrain from dragging your shoes and chair when pulling them out for use.
11. Chatting, petty talks, group discussions regarding class projects or assignments, answering cellphone call and playing ringtones should be done outside the library premises or at the lunge area.
12. Sleeping, smoking, eating and all sorts of vandalism are strictly prohibited inside the library.
13. Each student is asked to help keep the library neat and orderly, and to push back chairs quietly before the leaving the room.
14. All books taken out from the shelves should not be returned to the shelves. Place them on the table or on the book trucks provided for this purpose.
15. Treat the library materials you use with care. Do not cut or mutilate pages of books and periodicals.
16. Any person who uses an identification card not his owns shall have his privileges suspension for not more than one (1) semester.
Violation or infraction of library policies shall not be excused on the plea of ignorance and will be suspended from using the library facilities for a day or more depending on the gravity of offense.
17. The librarian will disinfect the books with plastic cover after being returned by the students or the faculty member. Individual s will not be allowed to borrow the book/s that is newly returned unless it has been disinfected by the librarian or the administrative staff.
18. The librarian and the administrative staff will disinfect the area of the reading commons as well as the e-library before closing the library for the day.
19. The librarian and the administrative staff will create a Facebook page for the online transaction and services that can be provided such as the following: inquiries of the availability of the copy of the book, referral of website, library tour or orientation with the rules and guidelines, and journal sites.
20. The librarian and the administrative staff will practice wearing face mask or face shield, proper sanitation of one's work desk, and sanitize hands with alcohol or wash hands regularly with soap in running water.
21. Students who are not feeling well in the library will be sent to the school clinic immediately for proper consultation and remedy to be given.
22. The librarian or the administrative staff if not feeling well may not report to the workforce. Once, the symptoms of the sickness are gone, he or she will have to visit the clinic for proper consultation.

LIBRARY COLLECTION DEVELOPMENT POLICY (CDP)
Collection Development Policy
      Collection Development Policy (CDP) is a scope of a library's existing collections, plan for the continuing development of resources, identify collection strengths, and outline the relationship between institution's goals and general selection criteria. The process of planning and building a useful and balanced collection of library materials over a period of years, based on an ongoing assessment of the information needs of the library's clientele, analysis of usage statistics and demographic projections, normally constrained by budgetary limitations.
      Collection Development includes the formulation of selection criteria, planning for resource sharing and replacement of lost and damaged items, as well as routine selection and de-selection decisions. In small and medium sized libraries, collection development responsibilities are normally shared by all the librarians, based on their interests and subject specializations, usually under the overall guidance of a written collection development policy.
Purpose:
      1. Assists students in meeting educational and personal achievement objectives.
2. Provides timely, accurate information that is sufficient, relevant and appropriate to the user.
3. Provides current, high demand, high interest materials in a variety of formats    and languages.
4. Provides the materials to enable all members to become critical thinkers and effective users of information in all formats.
Library Collection Development Policy Includes:
1. General collection and classification system
2. Selection Criteria
3. Acquisition Procedure
4. Donations, Gifts and/ or Free Materials
5. Disposal/ Material De-Selection
6. Weeding


A. GENERAL COLLECTION & CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
Abuyog Community College Library use Dewey Decimal Classification System and a Book Color Coding for arranging and identifying of library books and accurate representation of library collections.
      Collection Includes:
a. Generalities- Dictionaries, Encyclopedias, Atlases, Almanacs
b.  Philosophy & Psychology- Metaphysics, Epistemology, Psychology, Logic, Ethics, Philosophy
c. Religion- Bible, Christian Theology, Christian Church History
d. Social Sciences- General Statistics, Political Science, Economics, Law, Public Administration, Education, Commerce
e. Language- Linguistics, English Language, Filipino, Foreign Languages
f. Natural Sciences & Mathematics- Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Earth Sciences, Life Sciences, Botanical & Zoological Sciences
g. Technology (Applied Sciences)- Medical Sciences, Agriculture, Home Economics, Management
h. The Arts- Civic & Landscape Art, Painting and Paintings, Photography, Music, Recreational & Performing Arts
i. Literature and Rhetoric- American Literature, English and Old English Literature
j. Geography and History- Geography and Travel, Biography, Rizaliana, History of the Philippines, Asia & World.
         Other Collections:
a. Recipe Books, Tourism, Food & Beverage Services, Housekeeping and other books related to Hotel & Restaurant Management (BSHRM major subjects).

B. SELECTION CRITERIA

Librarian utilizes professional judgment and expertise in making collection development decisions, including decisions about choosing titles, identifying quantities for purchase, and selecting locations for materials. Anticipated demand, user's interests, strengths and weaknesses of the existing collections, system wide availability, physical space limitations, acquisitions procedures, and available budgets are all factors taken into consideration.
      
Materials are acquired in multiple formats when appropriate, including print, audiovisual, and digital resources. Highest selection priority is given to those materials in all formats having the broadest appeal. Librarian uses their training, subject knowledge and the selection criteria to identify collection goals and priorities for their library.
        The following policy statements are designed to:
1. Provide guidelines that govern the selection and acquisition of materials.
2. Ensure that materials acquired are selected to further the goals of meeting students and faculty needs, and not in a haphazard manner.
   MATERIAL SELECTION CRITERIA
Books of Filipino authorship are of the first preference, however, for highly technical course, book titles of foreign authorship may be acquired to the subject to the approval of the administrators.
Books of latest edition or published not later than five (5) years only shall be acquired for technical/ professional courses except for extremely necessary book titles. In which cases a justification is needed.
	The following are the general factors to be considered in the selection:
a. Authoritativeness (background and reputation of the author, publisher)
b. Accuracy of information
c. Impartiality
d. Currency of data
e. Scope/ depth of coverage
f. Appropriateness (to end user, format)
g. Relevance to the curriculum and appropriateness
h. Interest
i. Organization/ Style/ Aesthetic qualities
j. Physical characteristics
k. Special features
l. Library potential (Demand/ Relation to collection development strategies)
m. Cost/ Cost-effectiveness
n. Instructional objectives & criteria
o. Technical quality
      Other Considerations:
* Potential number of simultaneous users
* Variety of purpose of using the material
* Variety of formats for the same work (e.g. electronic format of book)
* Ease of use, storage and maintenance
* Equipment needed to utilize the media

C. ACQUISITION PROCEDURE

Acquisition is the process of securing materials for the library collection, whether by purchase, as gifts, or through exchange programs by which additions are made to the library.
         I.PURPOSE
a. To acquire material as quickly as possible.
b. To maintain a high level of accuracy in all work procedures.
c. To keep work processes simple, to achieve the lowest possible unit     cost.
d. To develop close, friendly working relationships with other library units and with vendors.
         II. FUNCTIONS:
a. Provide and maintain an up-to-date selection and order tools appropriate to the needs of the library to include publishers' catalogs, trade bibliographies, etc.
b. Maintain files of materials on order/ in process in such a manner that will permit all staff members to use them with ease.
c. Perform pre-order bibliographic searching to avoid duplication, obtain sufficient information to permit order to be placed, and to establish the main entry that probably will be used when the material is catalogued.
d. Select dealers or other sources for the purchase of materials, preparing and mailing orders, making provisions for the preparation of cataloging copy.
e. Receiving, unpacking, sorting and checking in books.
f. Approving invoices for payment; maintaining payment records.
g. Mechanical preparation of books such as entering marks of identification and pasting book pockets/ bar code labels, date due slips.
h. Forwarding materials for cataloging.
i. Entering subscription orders, receiving and recording periodical.
j. Making follow ups and claims for unfilled orders.
k. Informing requestors of the availability of materials or status of orders; preparation of New Acquisitions List.
l. Materials selection.
m. Soliciting gifts and establishing exchange agreements; maintaining appropriate records; receiving materials; sending exchange shipments to exchange partners.
    	III. ACQUISITION PROCEDURES:
	The following steps must be considered in the purchase of library materials:
1. Disperse requesting form to both Faculty and Students.
2. Consolidate the requested titles by the Faculty and Students
3. Check/ matched the said titles to the existing or available materials in the library.
4. Sort out orders according to the publisher, book store or book dealers.
5. Type selected titles at the desired forms-purchase request (PR) for approval.
6. Once approved, prepare a canvass or request for price quotation to at least 3 bookstores.
7. Get the lowest price among the three bookstores.
8. Prepare Purchase Order in an office form to whoever is the lowest price.
9. Send P.O. to awarded supplier.
D. DONATIONS, GIFTS AND/OR FREE MTERIALS
	Abuyog Community College library will accept and reject donations or free materials by the following selection processes:
1. In selecting learning resources, professional personnel will evaluate available resources and curriculum needs, and will consult reputable, professionally prepared aids to selection and other appropriate sources. The actual resource will be examined whenever possible.
2. Suggestions and reactions of donated materials shall be considered from faculty, administration and librarian.
3. Selection is an ongoing process, which will include maintenance of and adherence to Collection Development Plan, which details the thrust of the Strategic Plan for the Library Collection.
MEANS OF ACQUIRING MATERIALS:
1. Purchase
2. Gifts and donations
Book donations can augment the library's collection. However, constraints on space and staff time mean that the library cannot accept or retain all donations offered. The following criteria will be considered before donations are accepted:
a. Relevance to the school's teaching and research needs
b. Physical condition
c. Currency of subject matter.
          The collection will be assessed by the following:
1. The physical state of individual materials. Materials that are badly damaged will be assessed if it is:
a. Repairable will be repaired.
b. Not repairable, but replaceable will be identified on the purchase plan as items for immediate, future or optional purchase as appropriate.
c. As not fully repairable and non-replaceable but of value to the collection will be repaired as possible and archived as historical materials or repaired as possible and replaced on the shelves.
2. The currency of the publication date and the subject of the material. Materials that are extremely outdated will be assessed and identified as up datable and available will be identified on the purchase plan as items for immediate, future or optional purchase as appropriate. As non-replaceable but of inherent value to the collection may be archived as historical materials or replaced on the shelves.
      3. Materials that have historical value will be archived as historical materials.
4. Those having no value in the collection will be withdrawn from the collection (and sent to a suitable destination for others to use whenever possible)
D. WEEDING
The library recognizes the importance of maintaining a collection of current, appropriate and useful materials. Therefore, a periodic evaluation of the collection will be performed in order to remove or replace materials that are no longer useful.
1. Weeding by- Appearance
a. Worn- out, dirty, brittle, yellow pages, missing pages, etc.
b. Badly bound, soft pulpy paper and or shoddy bindings
c. Badly printed/ produced
d. Unappealing in appearance
2. Weeding or Superfluous or Duplicate Volume	
a. Unneeded duplicates of titles
b. Older or outdated editions
c. Materials that are no longer relate to the curriculum.
3. Weeding Based on Poor Content
a. Information is outdated
b. Information is inaccurate
c. Stereotypes are present
d. Materials are poorly written or produced.	
Library Services
The following are the services offered by the library to its library users:
1. Library Orientation Programs
   These are conducted with a tour of the different library sections and its physical arrangement through a video presentation for the students to view in the orientation day. This will be displayed in the administrative building in the flat screen television.
   
2. Books Display
    New books are displayed for about a month for the users to browse through before these can be loaned out.
   
3. Periodical Index
Much of the information in the library are the form of articles in periodicals, government publications and other available reports and bulletin; thus, periodical indices are constantly updated and provided for easy access by users.

4. Reference and Information Service
Though this service, users will know how and where to locate their information needs.

5. Circulation
Charging and discharging of books are done in this section including Filipiniana and Reserve books.

6.  Technical Service
This involved Acquisition Unit that kept the selection and acquisition of library   materials; Cataloging and Classification unit where the newly acquired materials are cataloged and classified; Bindery Unit that provides printing, repair and binding services primarily for the library.
Loan types:
HOURLY LAON
- reserve books are issued to a borrower for photocopying for a period of one hour only. Failure to return the book within one (1) hour, the borrower will incur a fine of one (1) peso per hour.                
PHOTOCOPYING OF BOOKS
- The library recognizes that the works of authors are their intellectual property. Thus, the library is able to secure explicit permission from authors or publishers to photocopy certain portion of their works. In this case their books are released to student for photocopying purposes.
WEEKLY LOAN
- Novels /fictions are loaned for seven (7) days they may be checked out from 2:30 to 4:00 p.m., and may be renewed for another seven (7) days.
MONTHLY LOAN
- Non-reserved books can be borrowed for month -long use. This only applicable to non- academic personnel and faculty members.

FINES AND PENALTIES
  Lost Books:
In case of loss of borrowed library materials, as much as possible it_ be replaced with exactly the same library materials i.e. the same title, author and edition; if replacement is impossible because the book is out of print, then the student has to pay retail cost of for the book/ library materials based on the current price plus one hundred pesos for service and processing fee.  In the event that the current price is not known, the following computation is observed:
Lost Books                                                         Fines Rate for Lost Books
Local author                                                        P5.00 per page
Foreign Author                                                    P20.00 per page  
Other library materials                                        P5.00 per page	
 
FINES:      
Loan Type                                                          Fine Rate for Unreturned Books
     Hourly loan (reserved books)                            P1.00 per hour for every book
     Overnight loan (circulation books)                    P10.00 for one day and P1.00 per hour    
                                                                                         for every book
     Weekly loan (fiction)                                        P5.00 per day for every day


E. Retention and Preservation of collections

The long-term retention and preservation of stacks is the responsibility of the College librarian and the staff. Not all materials offered to the library by donation or transfers from other libraries are accepted. Materials are only ever accepted by the library on the understanding that they become the property of the Abuyog Community College and these materials are relevant to the programs offered. The library will consider the retention of stacks of the titles are recommended and justified by a faculty member and other staff. 
Procedure: 
1. Shelf-read the books according to the acceptable arrangement system. 
2. Match the catalog cards with the books on the shelves. 
3. Turn up the cards of the missing books, showing their call number. 
4. Pull out the materials with problems in the shelves. 

F. Collection Maintenance, Preservation and General care of Library Resources 

Collection maintenance is important because library materials are often expensive and sometimes impossible to be replaced since they may not be available again in bookstores during the time when the material is lost or damaged. The users likely use the materials which are in good condition so those materials should be kept in good order to make presentable so that they are accessible to the user and ready to use when needed. Collection maintenance encompasses activities involved in keeping the collection updated, attractive and easy to use, like shelving and shelf-reading, repair of damaged books and discarding. 

It involves the following tasks: 
? End processing - the physical preparation of the library materials for inclusion in the collection. 
? Storage - different materials require different storage methods because they vary in kind, size, shape --e.g. maps, books, pamphlets, tapes and films and other electronic resources. 
? Care of the collection - providing the correct environment for the materials, checking their physical condition and repairing damaged materials. 
? Stocking and shelf-reading - checking the order of materials on shelves. 
? Book mending - a common repair which can be easily and quickly done. Activities: 
- The library staff return books in their proper places on the shelves at the end of the library service. 
- The librarian checks or shelf-read the books if they are properly placed in their shelves for easy retrieval the next time they are needed. 
- The librarian pulls out from the shelves the books that need to be repaired 
and discarded. Policy: At the end of the day, all library materials should be properly returned to 
the shelves.