TABLE OF CONTENTS
The ACC Seal

PAGE
1

BOOK I: THE ACADEME
The ACC’s Vision, Mission, Core Values and Goals
General Information
The Office of the Registrar
Records Section
Evaluation Section
Management Information Section
Auxillary Services
Office of the Student Affairs
Guidance and Counselling
Scholarships and Grant-in-Aids
Student Organizations and Activities
Student Discipline
School Library
Library Services
Publication
School Infirmary
Dental Services
Other Services

3
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
6
7
9
9
10
10
15
15
16
16

BOOK II: POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
Academic Policies
Admission/ Entrance Requirements
Procedure for Enrollment
Rules and Regulation on Academic Admission
Enrolment/ Transfer
Adding / Dropping/ Changing of Subjects/ Course
Shifting to Another Course
Cross Enrollment in Other Schools
Student Load
Student Retention Policy
Student Discipline
Student Conduct and Discipline
Student Disciplinary Committee
Student Absences
Credit and Grading System
Graduation
Graduation Honors
Special Awards

18
18
19
19
20
20
21
21
22
22
23
24
26
28
29
30
30
31

Commencement Exercise Attendance
Student Campus Organizations
Requirements for Recognition
Student Activities
Information Bulletin and Announcements
Organization under Suspension
Suspension of Organizations and Activities
Violations and Corresponding Penalties
Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy
Anti- Violence Against Women and Children Act
Magna Carta for Disabled Persons and Other Purposes

APPENDICES

Appendix A: Republic Act No. 8049
An Act Regulating Hazing and Other Forms of
Initiation Rites in Fraternities, Sororities, And
Organizations and Providing Penalties Thereof
Appendix B: Republic Act No. 7877
An Act Declaring Sexual Harassment Unlawful in
The Employment, Education or Training
Environment, and for Other Purposes
Appendix C: Administrative Order No. 35
The Conduct Relevant Activities During the Annual
Observance Of The National Disability Prevention
And Rehabilitation Week
Appendix D: BOT Resolution No. 177 s.2016
The Admission and Retention Policy of Abuyog
Community College
Appendix E: Requirements and Guidelines on Local
Off-Campus Activities
Appendix F: CMO no. 104 s. 2017
Revised Guidelines for Student Internship
Program in the Philippines (SIPP) for all Programs

32
32
33
35
36
37
37
37
38
38
38

40

46

51

55
58

63

Abuyog Community College is acting only on the acquisition of
quality Education on knowledge but also trained the students to
acquire the necessary information on knowledge and skills, especially
on computers or modern technology, so that they will become more
competitive in the outside world, the college is soaring up to modern
world.
Laurel: (Green in color) signifies triumph against ignorance hence
wisdom reigns.
Torch, scrolls and feather signifies wisdom, Torch with ACC
flames signifies lights, scrolls signify books, papers used in achieving
knowledge and feather signifies pencil for writing.
Bee’s for Abuyog and 1979 the year the college was established.
1|Page

THE ACC’s VISION, MISSION, CORE VALUES AND GOALS
VISION
A premiere local college in Eastern Visayas which is responsive to
the dynamic needs of the local and global communities
MISSION
Provide quality instruction in basic, post-secondary, and technicalvocational programs that enable the graduates to become
holistically developed, possessing the attributes of competitiveness,
analytical, resiliency, ethical and service-oriented.
CORE VALUES
Affordable
Community-Based
Character– Oriented
Institution

Competitive
Analytical
Resilient
Ethical
Service-Oriented

GOALS
1. Provide equal opportunities for all students to acquire the desired
knowledge, attitudes, and skills for them to excel and succeed in their
field of specialization.
2. Serve as a venue for the total development of students into
becoming service-oriented, value-laden and globally competitive
professionals who possess the 21st century skills.
3. Enhance the opportunities for staff to develop their competencies
and skills for effective delivery of services.
4. Encourage and support staff to conduct research and extension
programs.
5. Ensure quality of educational programs and services through
quality management and administration
2|Page

GENERAL INFORMATION
The Office Of The Registrar
The Office of the Registrar coordinates and controls activities
involving student registration, transfer, and graduation. The Office is
primarily responsible for the updating and safekeeping of student
records with strict confidentiality. The Office is also responsible for
the enforcement of the rules and regulations of the Commission on
Higher Education, TESDA and Department of Education regarding
admission and transfer, accreditation of subjects and units, curricular
load, sequence of subjects, etc. Inquiries concerning admission,
curricular offerings and similar information are routinely referred to
and handled by the Admission Section.
The Office of the Registrar coordinates with the Dean,
Department Heads, and other administrative officers of the school
regarding academic records, revisions of curricular programs, and
offering of new courses. Students who want to verify their academic
records should see the Section concerned. For cases not normally
handled by the Sections, students are encouraged to see the School
Registrar for proper guidance and advice.
In order to carry out its mandated functions effectively, the Office
of the Registrar is composed of four distinct sections: Admission
Section, Records Section, Evaluation Section, and Management
Information Section.

Records Section
The Records Section issues transfer credentials, transcript of
records, certifications on academic documents needed for
employment, travel abroad, scholarship grants, board examination,
etc. It also handles application for completion of incomplete grades
as well as verification of academic status of students and graduates.
All student records are constantly updated and maintained in utmost
confidentiality at the Records Section. Enrolment data and other
3|Page

related statistics may be requested from this Section in connection
with student research and other academic activities.

Evaluation Section
Evaluation of student academic records to determine credits
earned for purposes of graduation is conducted by the Evaluation
Section. The section sees to it that CHED rules and regulations, as
well as school policies, regarding sequence of subjects, course
content, semestral load, residence requirements, cross-enrolment,
etc. are enforced and properly complied with. The Evaluation Section
calendars the schedule for evaluation and application for graduation
every term, and such schedules are always posted on the bulletin
boards. Students are advised to apply for evaluation of their
academic records at least one (1) semester/summer term before
their expected graduation.
Management Information Section
Management Information Section, through its computer facilities,
processes the academic records of students based on their validated
certificate of enrolment until the final data output on final grades and
other similar data.
The Management Information Section likewise processes CHED
required reports on student’s enrolment, grades, and units earned
and reports required by other regulatory bodies. In sum, the MIS
processes student’s records for various offices of the school, the
CHED, parents and other offices or agencies which may require them.

I. ACADEMIC POLICIES

A. ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
General Policy
4|Page

Admission to Abuyog Community College is open to all
regardless of sex, religious belief or political affiliation.
Entrance Credentials
1. For incoming freshmen

· Form 138 / Report Card / Certificate of Ratings for ALS Passers
· Certificate of Good Moral Character
· College Admission Test
· Birth Certificate / NSO Authenticated Live Birth
· Additional Requirements per program
BS Criminology - Police Clearance, Medical Certificate
BS HRM - Medical Certificate
· Special Requirements for special cases
2. For transferees
· Honorable Dismissal (Transfer Credential) from the school last
attended
· Transcript of Records
· Certificate of Good Moral Character from the school last
attended
· Other requirements specified by the course
· Special Requirements for special cases
3. For returning students
· Duly signed Student Clearance
· Recent Grades Evaluation
· Index of Payment (Photocopy)

Bonafide Students
Considered a bonafide student of the school is one who is
5|Page

duly enrolled; that is, who has submitted his appropriate
admission or transfer credentials, made an initial payment of
his tuition and other fees to the institution and was allowed
to attend classes by the institution (CHED MORPHE 2008).

Procedure For Enrolment
a. Present entrance credentials
b. Pay entrance fee and ask for registration form
c. Fill out enrolment/registration form then have it approved
by the College Registrar
Withdrawal of Enrolment - In case a student withdraws
his/her enrolment before classes start, only 70% of the entrance
fee will be refunded. But if he/she withdraws after classes have
started, no fees are refunded and he/she is considered officially
dropped from the roll after submitting a duly accomplished
dropping form. If the student decides to drop his/her course after
the Prelims, all fees are to be paid.
B. RULES AND REGULATIONS ON ACADEMIC ADMISSION
General Rule
1. A student who fails in any professional (major) subject thrice
in a degree program shall be disqualified for readmission for
the said course. Consequently he/she be advised to take
another program.
2. Once a student decides to drop a subject, he/she has to inform
the Registrar’s Office immediately. Failure to do so means a
grade of 5.0 or “FAILED” in the subject.
3. A student may be refused re-admission in a program when
he/she incurs failure in the fifty percent (50%) of his/her
subjects for the semester.
6|Page

4. Enrolment/transfer - Registration periods for the semester and
summer terms are reflected in the academic calendar for each
school year. Each prospective student must enroll during the
prescribed registration period following detailed instructions on
enrolment procedures posted. No enrolment is possible without
the necessary credentials. Enrolment by proxy is not allowed.
Certificate of transfer credentials will be issued after the
applicants has been cleared of all financial/ property liabilities of
the school.
Adding/Dropping/ Changing Of Subjects/Course/Program

1. A student who desires to add/drop/change the subject
shall fill up the appropriate forms from the Registrar’s Office.
He/she seeks approval from the Department Head, pays the
appropriate amount and submit copies to (1) Instructor, (2)
Registrar’s Office and (3) retain his own copy.
2.
Adding/dropping/changing of subjects shall be done
based on schedule given by the Registrar.
3. A student who voluntarily leaves the college shall be
entitled to a certificate of Honorable Dismissal/ Transfer
Certificate provided the following are met:
a. The student is not under suspension or expulsion;
b. He/She is eligible for transfer
c. He/She has no financial or property obligation to the
College.

Shifting To Another Program/Course
1. Go to the Guidance Office for referral.
2. Secure form for change of program from the Registrar’s
7|Page

Office.
3. Secure recent evaluation of grades.
4. Go to the Department Head concerned for crediting and
loading of subjects.
5. Pay the corresponding shifting fee at the Cashier’s Office.
6. Submit the duly accomplished enrollment form to the
Registrar’s Office for final evaluation.
7. Submit enrollment form to MIS Office.
Cross Enrollment In Other Schools
Permit to cross enroll in other schools can only be granted if:
a. The applicant is graduating during the semester and the
course is not offered in the college; or
b. The subject required for graduation is in conflict with
another subject enrolled.
c. When the student intends to spend the school term in his
home province or region and enrolls in a subject offered
by an institution located therein.
The maximum number of units should not exceed the
allowable regular units prescribed in the curriculum.
Procedure:
1. Write a letter of request to cross enroll in a certain school
addressed to the Department Head.
2. Get Permit to Cross-Enroll from the School Registrar.
3. Proceed with your enrolment in the desired school.

Student Load
Subject Load—The subject shall be in accordance with the
8|Page

approved curriculum for each degree program. Reasonable
exceptions may be permitted taking into account the best interest
of the student and the objectives of the educational system.
Advanced Subjects and Back Subjects—As a general
rule, a student shall not be permitted to take any advanced
subject until he has satisfactorily passed the pre-requisite subject
or subjects. However, a student may be allowed to
simultaneously enroll in pre-requisite and advance classes under
the conditions as follows.
(1) When the pre-requisite is a repeated subject;
(2) When the student has a superior scholastic standing;
(3) When the student is graduating at the end of the school term;
and
(4) when it is approved by the Dean or any authorized academic
Official
Excess or Over Load —Upon the discretion of the higher
education institution, a graduating student may be allowed
additional subject-loads of not more than six (6) academic units
in excess of the normal load prescribed by the institution for the
last school term. Likewise, a graduating student may, on a caseto-case basis, be allowed to take several Physical Education (PE)
courses in a semester. The request for two (2) or more basic PE
subjects should include the following information:
(1) Name of the student
(2) Reasons justifying his failure to take PE in the preceding
semester;
(3) The class schedule and the class schedule of the
requested PE classes;
(4) The endorsement of the Registrar with the statement
“Graduating upon the completion of the load”.
C. STUDENT RETENTION POLICY
9|Page

Pursuant to Resolution No. 177 s. 2016 “A Resolution
Approving the Admission and Retention policy of Abuyog
Community College (Appendix D), the college shall adapt a
General Weighted Average of 2.2 as cut-off grade for all board
courses specifically on Criminology and Teacher Education.”
Gifted or honor students may be permitted to take such
additional advanced subjects or overload, including the summer
session, as the appropriate school official may determine, based
upon the previous academic performance of the student and
other evidence of educational measurement.

D. STUDENT ABSENCES
A student who incurs absences of more than twenty (20%)
percent of the prescribed number of class or laboratory periods
during the school year or term shall fail and earn no credit for the
course or subject except in the instances as follows:
(1) When the institution adopts a different attendance policy for
students who belong in the upper half of their classes; and
(2) When the institution exempts a student for just and reasonable
ground, provided however, that the student is not excused from
keeping–up
with lessons, assignments and examinations. A
faculty member may exempt a student who incurs absences beyond
the twenty percent (20%) limit, but with the approval of proper
school authority.
E. CREDIT AND GRADING SYSTEM
Credit and Units
One Collegiate unit of credit is one hour lecture/recitation each
10 | P a g e

week for a total of 18 weeks in a semester. One unit of laboratory is
equivalent to two-hour laboratory or shop work.
Grading System
Abuyog Community College uses number grades from 1 to 5 in
which 1.0 is the highest and 5.0 is the lowest. Below is the percent
equivalent of each numerical value:
GRADE EQUIVALENT
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.9
2.0

-

99-100
97-98
95-96
93-94
91-92
90
89
88
87
86
85

2.1 84
2.2 83
2.3 82
2.4 81
2.5 80
2.6 79
2.7 78
2.8 77
2.9 76
3.0 75
3.1 - 4.0 66-74
(conditional failure)
4.1-5.0 - 0-65 (Failed)

1. INC. – is a mark given to a student who lacks
requirements/examinations.
2. DROPPED - mark given to a student who officially withdraws from
the subject and/or has incurred absences beyond 20% of the total
number of regular classes.
3. An incomplete (INC) may be removed upon satisfactory compliance
of the lacking requirements and/or passing the examination
arranged by the teacher and the student.
4. An incomplete not removed within one (1) semester automatically
becomes a “5.0” or lapsed.
5. Students who failed to take examinations on regular schedules may
be given special examinations on schedules agreed upon by the
11 | P a g e

teacher and the student.
6. The teacher shall personally submit to the Registrar’s Office the
completed grade. If the teacher cannot personally submit the
grade, the submission must be done by a duly authorized person.
- No rating less than 2.5(80%) in any subject

F. GRADUATION
Application for Graduation
Candidates for graduation are required to apply for evaluation of
their records during the semester preceding their graduation.
a. After evaluation of his/her records, he/she may file an
application for graduation during the prescribed period.
b. Candidates for graduation are required to accomplish their
clearance before the final examinations of the last semester.
Graduation honors
To qualify for honors upon graduation, a student must have:
1. Completed at least 75 percent of the total number of
academic units for graduation in the college
2. Been in residence therein for at least three years immediately
preceding graduation
3. No failing grade in any subject
4. Carried a normal load prescribed in the curriculum
5. Finished the course within the period or may be shorter but
not longer than that prescribed in the curriculum and
6. Not been found guilty of any disciplinary case.
7. The appropriate graduation honors and the prescribed General
Weighted Average in all academic subjects for the entire duration of
the program or course, shall be:

12 | P a g e

Honors

General Weighted Average (GWA)

Summa Cum Laude

97% to 100% (1.00-1.10)

- No rating less than 1.5(90%) in any subject
Magna Cum Laude

93% to 96% (1.20-1.30)

- No rating less than 1.7(88%) in any subject
Cum Laude

90% to 92% (1.40-1.50)

- No rating less than 2.0(85%) in any subject
Dean’s list award

88%-89% (1.60-1.70)

8. Computation of the GWA shall be based on academic subjects on
ly; non-academic subjects (ex. P.E., NSTP) are not included.
9. All candidates for Graduation Honors endorsed by the department
shall undergo a validation process by a committee created for
this purpose.
Special Awards

Leadership Award - is given to students with exemplary

service and contribution for the successful implementation of
programs and projects in the campus.

Performing Arts Award - is given to any student or group who

excel in the fields of music, dance, visual arts, theater arts, and
literary works.

Outstanding Internship Award - is given to a senior student
who has shown exemplary
internship/on-the-job training.

performance

in

their

student

Commencement Exercise Attendance
a. All candidates for graduation should attend
baccalaureate and commencement exercises.

the

13 | P a g e

b. Graduating students who absent themselves from the
commencement and baccalaureate exercises without valid
excuse shall not be awarded their diploma or certificates until
such time when they shall have attended the regular
commencement and baccalaureate exercises.
G. SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRANTS IN AID
Available Grant
1. CHED Student Financial Assistance Program
2. Student Assistants Scholarship Program
3. Legislative Scholar
4. Honorific Scholar
General Requirements:
1. Must be a Filipino citizen;
2. Must be a high school graduate; candidate for graduation; with
earned units in college; passer of ALS/PEPT;
3. Must have a combined annual gross income of parents/
guardian not to exceed Three Hundred Thousand Pesos
(P300,000.00) *
4. Must avail only one CHED scholarship or financial assistance
program; and
5. Must not be a graduate of any degree program.
*In highly exceptional cases where income exceeds
Php300,000.00, the CHEDRO StuFAPs Committee shall determine
the merits of the application.
Documentary Requirements
14 | P a g e

a) Academic Requirement:
1. For fourth year high school applicants – third year grades and
first three grading periods of fourth year
2. For high school graduates – Form 138
b. For Applicants with Earned Units in College
1. Certificate of grades in all subjects in the last two (2)
Semesters
c. For Other Applicants
1. ALS – Accreditation and Equivalency Test Passer Certificate
2. PEPT – Certificate of Advancing to the Next Level
d. Other Requirements
1. Any one of the following: Latest Income Tax (ITR) of
parents/guardian, Certificate of Tax Exemption from the
Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR), Certificate of Indigency
from their Barangay, Case Study from Department of Social
Welfare and Development (DSWD), of Affidavit of No Income
2. Certificate of Good Moral Character from the last school
attended.
3. Within CHED LIST OF PRIORITY COURSES
In accordance with the pertinent provisions of Republic Act (RA)
No. 7722, otherwise known as “Higher Education Act of 1994”, based
on the national development plans manpower demands for AY 20142015 and DOLE Jobs Fit 2020 Vision and as a result of the
interagency meetings held on September 30 and October 24, 2013
15 | P a g e

with representatives from the Department of Labor and Employment
(DOLE), National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA),
Philippine Association of State Universities and Colleges (PASUC),
Philippine Association of Colleges and Universities (PACU), and in
view of the Commission en Banc Resolution No. 872-2013 dated
December 4, 2013 the qualified beneficiaries of CHED Student
Financial Assistance Programs (StuFAPs) shall be directed to enroll.
NOTE: Refer to CHED Memorandum Order (CMO) No. 01, s.

Policy snd Procedures For Sudent Clearance

Student Awards

I. Financial Information

A. School Charges

16 | P a g e

II. OFFICE OF THE STUDENT AFFAIRS
The Office of the Student affairs helps the school in achieving
one of its main educational objectives- that of forming the person
into a whole, useful, development-oriented, patriotic, and peaceloving individual. It serves as link between the administration and the
student body as well as provides guidance on matters concerning
student life, activities and discipline. The OSA also assists in the
placement of graduates.
Goals:
1. Promote the general welfare of the students.
2. Provide avenues to develop the potential and capacity of the
students for future responsibility and leadership.
3. Trains students to become effective and productive components
of the school and community; and
4. Ensure the fullest moral, physical, intellectual and social
development of students by creating opportunities and activities
for their participation.
Services Offered:
1. Admission services
a. Conduct information drive for recruitment of students
b. Administer entrance examination for incoming freshman
c. Screen incoming students based on admission requirements
and policies.
2. Student Welfare and Development Services

17 | P a g e

A. School Publication Office
The library periodically issues list of new acquisitions which
indicate titles of newly added collections. It also issues occasional
bibliographies on any subject areas from these collections. The
staff concerned with the service coordinates with other sectors
of the school for any bibliographic activities.

III. STUDENT SERVICES
A. Guidance And Counseling
College life entails a lot of difficult adjustments for students,
however, it can be made easy at ACC through its guidance and
counseling services where a Guidance Counselor is available to serve
them and attend to their personal, social, financial and academic
needs.

1. Testing
This service is intended to measure student’s ability, achievement
and/or other characteristics that may be useful bases for students in
making decisions in areas of admission/readmission, choice of
course, job placement, etc.
2. Information
The Guidance Service is also designed to assist students in coping
with adjustment problems caused by transition periods in various
levels through:
• General/Block orientation Program
• Career Guidance Seminar
• Leadership Trainings
18 | P a g e

• Job Seeking Seminar
• Other Student Development Programs
.
B. School Infirmary
The ACC infirmary provides medical and dental services to the
ACC populace. It is manned by medical officers; school physician,
registered nurse, and dentist.

a. Services Rendered
Medical Services
Clinic hours: Monday- Friday
8am-12nn and 1pm-5pm
Dental Consultation
Every Tuesday and Thursday
Dental Procedure is by appointment
The following services are provided by the school infirmary:
a. Medical examination of students and make referrals for those
who need higher level of health care facilities.
b. Medical health services for common presenting health and
medical problems and chronic illnesses which require special
care and immediate attention during school days and includes
minor injuries.
c. Administration of medication as warranted in accordance to
the policy of the clinic in administration of medication.
d. Immunization to prevent communicable diseases in
coordination with concerned government agencies.
e. Conduct one-on-one health counselling to individual students
and assist students in dealing with critical health issues that
concerns adolescents and young adults.
f. Conduct supplemental classroom instruction and materials on
19 | P a g e

various health related topics. Facilitate trainings and workshops
on specific topics that affect health and safety of students.
b. Dental Services
1. Dental examination and provisionof oral prophylaxis
2. Dental consultation and treatment
3. Dental counseling
c. Student Privilege
Free dental consultation, medical examination and initial dose
of available oral medicines in accordance to the school policy in
administration of medicines.
d. Other Services:
Support for Pregnant Student
Upon identification of the student being pregnant, referral
to the school nurse for proper assessment must be made. The
said student can receive support services such as referral,
exemption on physical activities. Referral to the guidance
counsellor must be made thereafter for counselling and guidance.
Support for Persons with Disability
Disability is as defined as a physical or mental condition
that limits a person’s movements, senses, or activities. This
institution recognizes the same and provides privileges as deem
fit to the identified disabled person. Ramps are provided within
the campus for the convenience of handicapped students.

C. LIBRARY SERVICES AND POLICIES
20 | P a g e

School Library
The Abuyog Community College library is an integral part of the
college which aims to provide effective informational support for the
curriculum and for the scholarly and creative accomplishment of the
students and faculty. It also serves as the venue for the students,
faculty and staff members to keep abreast with current development
in their field of interest.
The library offers circulation, reserve, reference, bibliographic
and advisory services.
Library Policies
1. Library hours are from 8:00am-12 noon and 1:00-5:00pm (no
noon break)
2. Always wear your school I.D. and the prescribed school
uniform.
3. Deposit your things at the bags counter upon entering the
library. You may bring your valuables (wallet, cellphone,
laptop and the like)
4. Help maintain a quite atmosphere for research. Silence in the
library must be observed at all times.
5. Refrain from dragging your shoes and chairs when pulling
them out for use.
6. Chatting, petty talks, group discussions regarding class
projects or assignments, answering cellphone call and playing
ringtones should be done outside the library premises or at
the lounge area.
7. Sleeping, smoking, eating and all sorts of vandalism are strictly
prohibited inside the library.
8. Each student is asked to help keep the library neat and orderly,
and to push back chairs quietly before leaving the room.
21 | P a g e

9. All books taken out from the shelves should not be returned
to the shelves. Place them on the table or on the book trucks
provided for this purpose.
10. Treat the library materials you use with care. Do not cut or
mutilate pages of books and periodicals.
11. Any person who uses an identification card not his owns shall
have his privileges suspension for not more than one (1)
semester.
Violation or infraction of library policies shall not be
excused on the plea of ignorance and will be suspended from
using the library facilities for a day or more depending on the
gravity of offense.
General Rules In Borrowing Books
1. The books and other reading materials are classified according
to where they belong: Reserve Section, Filipiniana Section,
Circulation Section and Periodical Section.
2. General references (dictionaries, encyclopedia, maps, atlas,
gazetteers), periodicals, vertical files (pamphlets, clippings)
journals, single copy of book, theses and dissertations are for
LIBRARY use only and therefore cannot be loaned out.
Photocopying is allowed, provided conditions in photocopying
of said materials are met.
3. Books in the Reserve Section are only allowed for library and
not allowed for overnight use, hence, students can borrow
books in the said section by presenting their borrowers card
to the one in-charge and be returned once he/she returned
the book.
4. Books borrowed on Friday will be returned on Monday.
5. A bonafide user, which includes faculty, personnel and
students are prohibited to borrow books for the purpose of
lending it to others without prior consent of the librarian.
6. In case of loss of borrowed library materials as much as
22 | P a g e

possible it should be replaced with exactly the same library
materials, i.e. the same title, author, and edition; if
unavailable, the present price of which shall be paid within 30
days. In event that the current price is not known, the
following computation is observed. Five (5) pesos per page,
for locally published books. Twenty (20) pesos per page for
foreign books, or five (5) pesos per page for other library
materials.
7. Fines and other library obligations should be settled with the
librarian or library in-charge before or during the signing for
current semester. Failure or refusal to need may mean to
forfeiture of library privileges.
8. The money collected from fines shall be recorded accordingly,
a copy of which shall be furnished to the Office of the College
President and College Registrar for their information and
reference. However, the amount shall be used for the
purchase of needed library facilities with approval of the
College President.
Loan Types:

HOURLY LOAN- reserve books are issued to a borrower for
photocopying for a period of one hour only.
Failure to return the book within one (1) hour, the borrower will
incur a fine of one (1) peso per hour.
PHOTOCOPYING OF BOOKS
The library fully recognizes that the works of authors are
their intellectual property. Thus, the library is able to secure
explicit permissions from authors or publishers to photocopy
certain portions of their works. In this case their books are
released to students for photocopying purposes.

OVERNIGHT LOAN - maximum of two (2) books in the
23 | P a g e

Circulation per student is allowed to be loaned for overnight use
only. They may be checked out from 2:30 to 4:00 pm. These
books must have returned at or before 8:00 a.m. the following
day.
Failure to return the book on its due date, the borrower
will incur a fine of five (5) peso per hour and fifty (50) pesos per
day.

WEEKLY LOAN - Novels/fictions are loaned for seven (7) days,
they may be checked out from 2:30-4:00 p.m., and may be
renewed for another seven (7) days.

MONTHLY LOAN - non-reserved books can be borrowed for
month- long use. This is only applicable to non- academic
personnel and faculty members.
Fines And Penalties

Lost books:
In case of loss of borrowed library materials, as much as
possible it be replaced with exactly the same library materials,
i.e. the same title, author and edition; if replacement is
impossible because the book is out of print, then the student has
to pay the retail cost of for the book/ library material based on
the current price plus one hundred pesos for service and
processing fee. In the event that the current price is not known,
the following computation is observed:
should

Lost Books

Fine Rate For Lost Books

Local author
Foreign Author
Other library materials

P5.00 per page
P20.00 per page
P5.00 per page

24 | P a g e

Fines:
Loan Type

Fine Rate For Unreturned Books

Hourly loan (reserved books)

1.00 per hour for every book

Overnight loan (circulation books) P10.00 for one day and P1.00
per hour for every book
Weekly loan (fictions)

P5.00 per day for every day

Library Services
1. Library Orientation Programs- these are conducted with a tour
of the different library sections and its physical arrangements.
2. Books Display- new books are displayed for about a month for
the users to browse through before these can be loaned out.
3. Periodical Index- much of the information in the library are in
the form of articles in periodicals, government publications
and other available reports and bulletins; thus, periodical
indices are constantly updated and provided for easy access
by users.
4. Reference and Information Service- through this service, users
will know how and where to locate their information needs.
5. Circulation- charging and discharging of books are done in this
section including Filipiniana and Reserve Sections.
6. Vertical File Materials- these include clippings, pamphlets,
brochures, booklets which are arranged in alphabetical order
by subjects.

25 | P a g e

STUDENT CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE
Student Discipline
Must Be Behavior of Students:
1. Wear the prescribed school uniform with the identification
card/nameplates upon entering the campus and while inside
the college premises.
1.1 All students are required to wear the prescribed uniform
from Monday to Friday except Wednesday.
1.2 Special uniforms may be worn by students who are
undergoing job trainings and vocational laboratories and
those taking Physical education or NSTP for designated
time and days only.
1.3. Only pregnant women are exempted from wearing the
school uniform. She must present a medical certificate
from her attending physician.
1.4. The following are considered inappropriate:
a. For Men: Sleeveless shirts, tattered pants, rubber slippers,
sport sandals and shorts, earrings, make up, long or dyed
color hair.
b. For Women: Blouses-shirts with plunging neckline,
spaghetti strap, haltered shirts/blouses/dresses, miniskirts, short pants, and rubber slippers.
2. Attend classes regularly and punctually. Tardiness of more
than 15 minutes without justifiable reason constitutes an absence
from the class.
3. Observe proper decorum (modesty and propriety) especially
while inside the campus.
26 | P a g e

4. Attend social functions in attires appropriate for the occasions.
5. Keep abreast on school updates posted in the bulletin board
of the college.
6. Observe library and laboratory rules and regulations while
using the same.
7. Leave the room quietly and in an orderly manner when
dismissed or given permission by the instructor to go out.
8. Protect status as student and the good name or reputation of
the college.
Student Conduct
The rules and regulations regarding student conduct are
not imposed to curtail their rights but to instill in them the true
sense of responsibility,
respect for authority, self-direction and to help bring about an
atmosphere conducive to effective instruction and learning.
The following acts and behavior constitute violation and
breach of the rules and regulations of discipline regarding
behavior and right conduct:
1. Dishonesty such as cheating, plagiarism or knowingly
furnishing false information to the college or staff.
2. Forging, altering or misuse of the college documents and
records.
3. Obstruction or disruption of teaching, research, administration,
disciplinary procedure, or other campus activities, including
its public service functions or other activities on campus.
4. Physical abuse of any person at any college functions or
conduct which threatens or endangers the health and safety
of any such person.
27 | P a g e

5. Theft of college property or that of a campus visitor.
6. Unauthorized entry into or use of college facilities.
7. Use, or possession, or distribution of narcotics or dangerous
drugs such as shabu, marijuana, cocaine etc.
8. Smoking within the school premises.
9. Gambling in the premises
10. Drunkenness
11. Grave act of disrespect to instructor and school officials
12. Instigating/ agitating/ participating in concerted unlawful
activities.
13. Damage to school property such as tearing of book parts,
defacement of facilities, furniture, posters and walls.
14. Use, possession, distribution of immoral, questionable or
subversive publication, unauthorized leaflets, brochure,
letters, etc.
15. Behavior or acts that cause dishonor and discredits to the
college and her educational role.
16. Unauthorized carrying of firearms deadly and bladed weapon
inside the campus.
17. Disorderly, lewd, indecent or obscene conduct or language
within the college premises or any supervised college
function.
18. Failure to comply with directives issued by the college official
28 | P a g e

in the course of the performance of their duties.

Sanctions
The following sanctions may be imposed as the gravity of
cumulative offenses may warrant:
First Offense: Verbal warning or Oral reprimand
Second Offense: Written reprimand with parent-child
conference
Third Offense: Written reprimand which becomes part of the
student’s official file
Fourth Offense: Suspensions
Fifth Offense: Expulsion
STUDENT DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE
A. Composition:
The Abuyog Community College Student Discipline Committee
comprises:
· Prefect of Student as Chairman.
· The President of the Student Supreme Council (SSC) or his duly
representative.
· Guidance Counselor
· Department Head of the students involved in the disciplinary cases
· OSA Coordinator
The School President may, in appropriate cases, designate an
alternate Chairperson member whenever any of the person originally
appointed to the position is unable to perform his duties, as herein
provided due to personal interest, relationship or prolonged absence.
Provide further, that the alternate so designate shall serve in capacity
29 | P a g e

for the duration of the formal investigation of the particular case in
which his appointment is made.
B. Jurisdiction:
The Student Disciplinary Committee has jurisdiction over all involving
student discipline and the imposition of sanctions.
C. Student School Discipline Protocol
The College seeks to uphold the schools and student interests by
implementing the established regulations related to appropriate
behavior. Procedure related to student discipline are meant to ensure
rationality and order. Hence, the emphasis on all the programs and
interventions on appropriate behavior and is intended to prevent, if
not, deter any misbehavior of students, to ensure upright living.
In all cases of offenses, misconduct, or violations cited in the Student
Manuel, involving a Student, the following shall govern:
Formal complaints against student shall be filed before the Prefect of
Discipline; complaints may come from faculty members, nonteaching employee, student and other persons concerned with the
college (on a case to case basis as the OSA Coordinator may deem
appropriate);
Summons to both complainants and respondents shall be given.
The Prefect Discipline will then conducts preliminary investigation on
minor and major violations of students conduct and discipline and
shall evidence including documents and materials as he may deem
relevant.
The Prefect shall assess the gravity and complexity of the case and
proceed to handle the same. Moreover, the prefect shall have
authority to dismiss any complaint in his opinion is devoid of merit.
Provided further, that when the students is found guilty of the
offense, he may impose the penalties as provided for in this
handbook and submits the same to the College President for notation
upon receipt of the investigation results from the Prefect of
30 | P a g e

Discipline.
If the decision is accepted by the student, the case is put to rest. If
it is not acceptable, the decision is appealed to the Student Discipline
Committee.
The Student Discipline Committee will then convene and conduct
Formal Investigation of the matter at hand and deliberate the same.
Decision shall then be render for final disposition of the case.

31 | P a g e

STUDENT CAMPUS ORGANIZATION
Bona fide students may form and join organizations of their own
choice as recognized by the Office of the Student Affairs provided
that the purposes and activities of such organization are fully in
accordance with the Filipino culture, ideas and traditions; provided
further, that they are not contrary to the existing College rules and
regulations; and provided finally that their purpose are not contrary
to law, moral and public policy.
Unrecognized student organization shall not undertake any
activities of any kind within the college premises, except with specific
permit previously granted to it.
All student organizations should register with the Student
Activities Officer under the Office of the Student Affairs and Services.
Registration of student organization should be renewed at the start
of every school year.
Requirements For Recognition
A. For newly formed organizations
A duly accomplished application for recognition (forms to be
secured at the OSA) must be submitted along with the following
requirements:
1. Constitution and by-laws of the organization
2. List of members
3. List of officers with respective signatures
4. A copy of 2x2 ID photo of the head of organization
5. Workplan for the school year which includes:
32 | P a g e

a. Name/nature of activity
b. Objectives/goals
c. Proposed date of activity
d. Resources
e. Strategies
f. Target clientele
g. Expected outcome
6. Final list of at least 5 resident members with respective
signatures
7. At least two advisers from the faculty/staff.
B. For existing organization (renewal)
Existing organization and those which were on probation
during the previous semester/year that wish to continue must
submit the following:
1. Revised constitution and by-laws, if any
2. Progress report (accomplishments/financial ) of preceding
school year signed by the president and secretary and noted
by the adviser/s.
3. Updated list of officers
4. Workplan for the school year
5. Final list of at least 5 resident members with respective
signatures
6. At least two advisers from the faculty/staff.
7. A copy of 2x2 ID photo of the officers of the organization
2. Criteria for renewal
1. Must have accomplished all requirements
2. Must have embarked on various types of activities which are
geared toward educational, socio-cultural, physical,
economic or community development in realization of the
basic objectives of the organization adopted from its own
project-planning/feasibility studies for major projects.
3. Its members must have shown consciousness of their
responsibilities in relation to their privileges as members of
33 | P a g e

the organization, initiated and supported constructive
programs and upheld the principles of the organization.
4. Must have followed rules and regulations set by the school
and OSA; upheld the laws of the land and its constitution
and by-laws.
5. For those organizations on suspension because of infraction
of rules and regulations, they must have served the penalties
given and sanctioned by the office or any appropriate body.
6. Organizations must not have violated any rules and
regulations during and after the completion of the
sanction/penalties given to the organization.
Officers
1. Qualifications
Must not have been found guilty of any disciplinary case
or any act involving moral turpitude as defined by the Revised
Penal Code and special laws.
2. Responsibilities
a. The main duties and responsibilities of officers should be those
as specified in the organization’s constitution.
b. They must at all times exercise vigilance in the conduct of their
affairs. They shall be held accountable for their actions as
well as for those of their members.
c. Officers are expected to attend meetings called by the OSA
on organization matters.
Organization Advisers
1. Qualifications
a. Must be members of the ACC faculty and staff except OSA
personnel.
b. May serve as adviser of not more than 2 student organizations.
c. Must not been found guilty of any disciplinary case or any act
involving moral turpitude as defined by the Revised Penal
Code and special laws.
34 | P a g e

2. Responsibilities
a. Must be actively involved in the making of the workplan of the
organization
b. Must be present in any approved activity of the organization
c. Must be a signatory in any certified accomplished activity of
the organization
d. Must evaluate and sign financial report of the organization
e. Must take the responsibility for any violations done by the
Organization
f. Must do other tasks as may be required by the OSA and the
President of the College
g. Must refer to the Office of the Student Affairs any problems
encountered by the organization as a whole or by the
individual members
h. Must instill among members positive attitudes towards
service, leadership and sense of values.
Students Activities
1. Conduct of Activities
Student activities must only be held upon approval from proper
authorities. The following activities may be conducted by
student organizations.
a. Community outreach/service
b. Educational activities
c. Socio-cultural activities
d. Recreational activities
e. Fund raising
f. Organizational development
2. Processing Activity Permits
a. Secure a duly signed letter of request.
b. Submit the activity permit application to the OSA at least 5
working days before the proposed activity.
c. Any activity of the OSA recognized organization requires a
35 | P a g e

written request and approval by the College President.
d. Permits may be revoked or cancelled whenever the
circumstances so warrant, provided that reason (s) for such
action is clearly indicated and explained to the students.
e. Accomplishment report shall be submitted a week after every
Activity to the Office of the Student Affairs. Failure to submit
the said report after 1 week without valid reason may be a
cause for disapproval of succeeding permits.
3. Information Bulletins And Announcement
1. Must be written in English, Filipino or in vernacular.
2. Must be noted by OSA or any authorized personnel in his/her
absence before posting; otherwise it shall be removed without
prior notice to the organization concerned.
3. Must be posted on campus bulletin boards.
4. Must be removed after the activity to allow other groups to post
their bills.
Privileges
Only recognized organizations may:
1.Use school facilities such as classrooms, grounds, lights and others
with approval from proper authority/ies.
a. Property responsibility
The officers of student organizations concerned shall be
jointly and/or severally liable for any damage or injury done to
school properties/facilities arising from the use thereof by the
organization
2. Participate in inter-organization activities/competitions
3. Compete in college-wide sponsored activities or contests by
recognized organizations
4. Officially use the name of the school when engaging in off-campus
activities
5. Have their organizational activities publicized in the student
publications.
36 | P a g e

Organizations Under Suspension
Organizations that are suspended are automatically deprived of all
the privileges as provided in this handbook.
Upon satisfying the conditions and penalties set for the violation/s,
the organization applies for reinstatement through formal
communication subject to thorough evaluation.
Suspension Of Organization And Activities
The following are grounds for suspension of organizations and
activities:
1. Non-compliance of semestral/year-end requirements
2. Violation of any policies an organizations or other school rules
and regulations
Violations And Corresponding Penalties
1. Organization activities without permit.
1st offense
reprimand
nd
2 offense
2 days suspension
3rd offense
1 week suspension
th
4 offense
1 month
5th offense
1 semester
2. Ticket distribution without OSA seal
1st offense
reprimand
2nd offense
on probation for 1 semester
rd
3 offense
1 year suspension of the organization
Continued violations of the same offense for more than three
times will result in the disqualification from the official list of OSArecognized organizations.
In addition to the revocation of the authority to operate, the
37 | P a g e

student organization and the violator/s as well as the officers of the
organizations may either be reprimanded, suspended, dropped or
expelled from the rolls of the school depending on the seriousness of the
offense committed.

STUDENT SAFETY AND PROTECTION
Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy
Section 1. The anti-sexual harassment policy of the College will be
based on the provisions of Republic Act 7877, otherwise known as the
Anti-Sexual Harassment Law.
Anti- Violence Against Women And Children Act
Section 1. The anti-violence against women and children policy of the
College will be based on the provisions of Republic Act 9262, otherwise
known as the Anti-Violence Against Women and Children Act.
“Magna Carta For Disabled Persons And For Other Purposes”
The policy of the College on public ridicule and vilification against
persons with disability will be based on the provisions of Republic Act
7277, otherwise known as the Magna Carta for Disabled Persons

38 | P a g e

Republic Act No. 8049
AN ACT REGULATING HAZING AND OTHER FORMS OF
INITIATION RITES IN FRATERNITIES, SORORITIES, AND
ORGANIZATIONS AND PROVIDING PENALTIES THEREOF
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
Philippines in Congress assembled:

Section 1.

Hazing as used in this Act is an initiation rite or
practice as a prerequisite for admission into membership in fraternity,
sorority or organization by placing a recruit, neophyte or applicant in
some embarrassing or humiliating situation such as forcing him to do
menial, silly, foolish and similar tasks or activities or otherwise
subjecting him to physical or psychological suffering or injury.
The term organization shall include any club or the Armed
Forces of the Philippines, Philippine National Police, Philippine Military
Academy, or officer and cadet corps of the Citizen’s Military Training,
or Citizen’s Army Training. The physical, mental and psychological
testing and training procedure and practices to determine and
enhance the physical, mental and psychological fitness of prospective
regular members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines and the
Philippine National Police as approved by the Secretary of National
Defense and the National Police Commission duly recommended by
the Chief of Staff, Armed Forces of the Philippines and the Director
General of the Philippines National Police shall not be considered as
hazing for the purpose of this Act.

Section 2.

No hazing or initiation rites in any form or manner
by a fraternity, sorority or organization shall be allowed without prior
written notice to the school authorities or head of organization seven
days before the conduct of initiation. The written notice shall indicate
the period of the initiation activities which shall not exceed three
days, shall include the names of those subjected to such activities
and shall further contain an undertaking that no physical violence be
39 | P a g e

employed by anybody during such initiation rites.
Section 3.
The head of the school or organization or their
representatives must assign at least two representatives of the
school organization, as the case may be, to be present during the
initiation.
It is the duty of such representative to see to it that no physical
harm of any kind shall be inflicted upon a recruit, neophyte or
applicant.

Section 4.

If the person subjected to hazing or other forms
of initiation rites suffers any physical injury or dies as a result thereof,
the officers and members of the fraternity, sorority or organization
who actually participated in the infliction of physical harm shall be
liable as principals. The persons who participated in the hazing shall
suffer:
a. The penalty of reclusion perpetua if death, rape, sodomy or
mutilation results therefrom.
b. The penalty of reclusion temporal in its maximum period if in
consequence of the hazing the victim shall become insane, imbecile,
impotent or blind.
c. The penalty of reclusion temporal in its maximum period if in
consequence of the hazing the victim shall have lost the use of
speech or the power to hear or to smell, or shall have lost an eye, a
hand, a foot an arm or a leg or shall have lost the use of any such
member shall have become incapacitated for the activity or work in
which he was habitually engaged.
d. The penalty of reclusion temporal in its minimum period if in
consequence of the hazing the victim shall become deformed, or shall
have lost any other part of his body, or shall have lost the use
therefor, or shall have been ill or incapacitated for the performance
of the activity or work in which he has habitually engaged for a period
of more than ninety days.
e. The penalty of prison mayor in its maximum period if in
consequence of the hazing victim shall have been ill or incapacitated
40 | P a g e

for the performance of the activity or work in which he was habitually
engaged for more than thirty days.
f. The penalty of prison mayor in its medium period if in
consequence of the hazing the victim shall have been ill or
incapacitated for the performance of the activity or work in which he
was habitually engaged for ten days or more, or that the injury
sustained shall require medical attendance for the same period.
g. The penalty of prison mayor in its maximum period if in
consequence of the hazing the victim shall have been ill or
incapacitated for the performance of the activity or work in which he
was habitually engaged from one to nine days, or that the injury
sustained shall require medical attendance for the same period.
h. The penalty of prison correctional in its maximum period if in
consequence of the hazing the victim shall have sustained physical
injuries which do not prevent him from engaging in his habitual
activity or work nor require medical attendance.
The responsible officials of the school or of the police, military or
citizen’s army training organization may impose the appropriate
administrative sanctions on the persons charged under this provision
even before their conviction.
The maximum penalty herein provided shall be imposed in any
of the following instances:
a. When the recruitment is accompanied by force, violence, threat,
intimidation or deceit on the person of the recruit who refuses to
join;
b. When the recruit, neophyte or applicant initially consents to join
but upon learning that hazing will be committed on his person, is
prevented from quitting;
c. When the recruit, neophyte or applicant having undergone hazing
is prevented from reporting the unlawful act to his parents or
guardians, or to the proper school authorities, or to police
authorities, through force, violence, threat or intimidation;
41 | P a g e

d. When the hazing is committed outside of the school or institution;
or
e. When the victim is below twelve (12) years of age at the time of
hazing.
The owner of the place where the hazing is conducted shall be liable
as an accomplice, when he has actual knowledge of the hazing
conducted therein but failed to take any action to prevent the
same from occurring. If the hazing is held in the home of one of
the officers or members of the fraternity, group or organization,
the parents shall be held liable as principals when they have
actual knowledge of the hazing conducted therein but failed to
take any action to prevent the same occurring.
The school authorities including faculty members who consent to the
hazing or who have actual knowledge thereof, but failed to take
any action to prevent the same from occurring shall be punished
as accomplices for the acts of hazing committed by the
perpetrators.
The officers, former officers, or alumni of the organization, group,
fraternity or sorority who actually planned the hazing thought not
present when the acts constituting the hazing were committed
shall be liable as principals. Officers or members of an
organization, group, fraternity or sorority who knowingly
cooperated in carrying out the hazing by inducing the victim to
be present thereat shall be liable as principals. A fraternity or
sorority’s adviser who is present when the acts constituting the
hazing were committed and failed to take any action to prevent
the same from occurring shall be liable as principals. The
presence of any person during the hazing is prima facie evidence
of participation therein as principal unless the prevented the
commission of the acts punishable therein.
Any person charged under this prevision shall not be entitled to the
mitigating circumstance that there was no intention to commit so
grave a wrong….
This section shall apply to the president, manager, director or other
responsible officer of a corporation engaged in hazing as a
42 | P a g e

requirement for employment in the manner provided therein.
Section 5. If any provision or part of this Act6 is declared invalid or
unconstitutional, the other parts or provisions thereof shall
remain valid and effective.
Section 6. All laws, orders, rules, or regulations which are
inconsistent with or contrary to the provisions of this Act are
hereby amended or repeated accordingly.
Section 7. This Act shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its
publication in at least two (2) national newspapers of general
circulation.
JOSE DE VENECIA, JR. (sgd)
Speaker of the House of Representatives
EDGARDO J. ANGARA (sgd)
President of the Senate
This Act, which is a consolidation of Senate Bill No. 176 and House
Bill No. 12401 was finally passed by the Senate and the House of
Representatives on June 2, 1995.
CAMILO L. SABIO (sgd)
Secretary General, House of Representatives
EDGARDO E. TUMANGAN (sgd)
Secretary of the Senate, House of Representatives
Approved: June 7, 1995
FIDEL V. RAMOS (sgd)
President of the Philippines

43 | P a g e

APPENDIX B

44 | P a g e

REPUBLIC ACT 7877
AN ACT DECLARING SEXUAL HARASSMENT UNLAWFUL IN
THE EMPLOYMENT, EDUCATION OR TRAINING
ENVIRONMENT, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

Section 1. Title- This Act shall be known as the “Anti- Sexual
Harassment Act of 1995.”

Section 2. Declaration of Policy- The State shall value the dignity
of every individual, enhance the development of its human
resources, guarantee full respect for human rights, and uphold the
dignity of workers, employees, applicants for employment; students
or those undergoing training, instruction or education. Towards this
end, all forms of sexual harassment in the employment, education or
training environment are hereby declared unlawful.

Section 3. Work, education or training-related related sexual
harassment defined-work, education or training-related sexual
harassment is committed by an employer; employee, manager,
supervisor, agent or employer, teacher, instructor, professor, coach,
trainer or any person, who, having authority, influence or moral
ascendancy over another in a work or training or education
environment, demands, requests or otherwise requires any sexual
favor from the another, regardless of whether the demand, request
or requirement for submission is accepted by the object of said act.
a) In a work-related or employment environment, sexual
harassment is committed when:
1. The sexual favor is made as condition in the hiring or employment,
re-employment or continued employment of said individual favorable
compensation, terms, conditions, promotion or privileges, or the
refusal to grant the sexual favor results in limiting, segregating or
classifying the employee which in any way would discriminate,
deprive or diminish employment opportunities or otherwise adversely
45 | P a g e

affect said employee,
2. The above acts would impair the employee’s rights or the
privileges under existing labor laws; or
3. The above acts would result in an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
environment for the employee.
b) In an education or training environment, sexual harassment
harassment is committed:
1. Against one who is under the care, custody or supervision of
the offender;
2. Against one whose education, training, apprenticeship or
tutorship is entrusted to the offender;
3. When the sexual favor is made a condition to the giving of a
passing grade, or the granting of honors and scholarships, or the
payment of a stipend, allowance or other benefits, privileges or
considerations; or
4. When the sexual advances result in an intimidating, hostile or
offensive environment for the students, trainee or apprentice.
Any person who directs or induces another to commit any act of
sexual harassment as herein defined, or who cooperates in the
commission thereof by another without which it would not have been
committed, shall also be held liable under this act.

Section 4.

Duty of the employer or Head of Office in a Workrelated, education or training environment- it shall be the duty of the
employer or the head of the work-related, educational or training
environment or institution, to prevent or defer the commission of acts
of sexual harassment and to provide the procedures for the
resolution, settlement or prosecution of acts of sexual harassment.
Towards this end, the employer or head of office shall:
a. Promulgate appropriate rules and regulations in consultation with
and jointly approved by the employees or students or trainees,
through their duly designated representatives, prescribing the
procedure for the investigation of sexual harassment cases and the
46 | P a g e

administrative sanctions thereof.
Administrative sanctions shall be not be a bar to prosecution in the
proper courts for unlawful acts of sexual harassment. The said rules
and regulations issued pursuant to this sub section (a) shall include,
among other, guidelines on proper decorum in the workplace and
educational or training institutions.
b. Create a committee on decorum and investigation of cases on
sexual harassment. The committee shall conduct meetings, as
the case may be, with officers and employees, teachers, instructors,
professors, coaches, trainers and students or trainees to in-increase
understanding and prevent incidents of sexual harassment. It shall
also conduct the investigation of alleged cases constituting sexual
harassment.
In the case of a work-related environment, the committee shall
be composed of at least one representative each from the
management, the union if any, the employees from the supervisory
rank, and from the rank and the file employees.
In the case of the educational or training institution, the
committee, shall be composed of at least one representative from
the administration, the trainors, teachers, instructors, professors or
coaches and students or trainees as the case may be.
The employer or head of office, educational or training institution
shall disseminate or post a copy of this Act for the information of all
concerned.

Section 5. Liability of the employer, head of office, educational or
training institution- the employer or head of office, educational or
training institution shall be solidarity liable for the damages arising
from the acts of sexual harassment committed in the employment,
education or training environment if the employer or head of office,
educational or training institution is informed of such acts by the
47 | P a g e

offended party and no immediate action is taken thereon.

Section 6.

Independent action for damages- nothing in this
act shall preclude the victim of work, education or training-related
sexual harassment from instituting a separate and independent
action for damages and other affirmative relief.

Section 7.

Penalties- Any person who violates the provisions
of this act shall, upon conviction, be penalized by imprisonment not
less than one month nor more than six months, or a fine of not less
than ten thousand pesos (10,000.00); nor more than twenty
thousand pesos (20,000.00), or both such fine and imprisonment at
the discretion of the court.
Any action arising from the violation of the provisions of this act shall
prescribe in three years.

Section 8.

Separability clause- if any portion or provision of
this act is declared void or unconstitutional, the remaining portions
or provisions hereof shall not be affected by such declaration.

Section 9.

Repealing clause- all laws, decrees, orders, rules
and regulations, other issuances, or parts thereof inconsistent with
the provisions of this act are hereby repealed or modified
accordingly.

Section 10.

Effectivity clause- this act shall take effect fifteen
days after its complete publication in at least two national
newspapers of general circulation.

(This act which is a consolidation of House Bill No. 9425 and Senate
Bill no. 1632 was finally passed by the House of Representatives and
the Senate on February 8, 1995.)
Approved, February 14, 1995.

48 | P a g e

APPENDIX C

49 | P a g e

MALACANANG
Manila
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER NO. 35
Directing All Departments, Bureaus, Government-Owned
And/or Controlled Corporations, Government Financial
Institutions, Local Government Units, State Universities/
Colleges
And
Schools,
And
Other
Government/
Instrumentalities To Promote And Conduct Relevant
Activities During The Annual Observance Of The National
Disability Prevention And Rehabilitation Week
WHEREAS, Proclamation No. 1870 was issued on June 22, 1979
declaring the third week of July as the national Disability
Prevention and Rehabilitation (NDPR) Week to highlight the
nation’s efforts towards disability prevention and rehabilitation
leading to the effective integration of persons with disabilities into
mainstream of society as mandated under RA 727 otherwise
known as the Magna Carta for Disabled persons;
WHEREAS, Proclamation No.361 was subsequently issued on August
19, 2000 resetting the dates of the annual observance of the
National Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation Week which
culminates on the birthdate of the sublime paralytic, Apolinario
Mabini, on July 23 each year;
WHEREAS, the National Commission Concerning Disabled Persons
(NCCDP) which was created by virtue of Presidential Decree No.
1509 dated June 11, 1978, and became National Council for the
Welfare of Disabled Persons (NCWDP) by virtue of Executive
Order No. 232 dated July 22, 1987, is mandated to serve as the
central authority of the government which will direct, coordinate,
and integrate planning and management as well as
implementation of all activities, public and private, pertaining to
50 | P a g e

the welfare of persons with disabilities;
WHEREAS, it is in the national interest to stimulate public awareness
on all matters and issues involving persons with disabilities and
encourage every citizen to take active responsibility in uplifting
their economic and social conditions as well as recognizing the
abilities of our brethren with disabilities;
WHEREAS, these efforts require the re-affirmation of support by this
Government in partnership with non-government organizations
working for/of persons with disabilities hand-in-hand wit
concerned agencies, as well as the private sector through the
participation of the Filipino citizenry;
WHEREAS, in celebrating the National Disability Prevention and
Rehabilitation (NDPR) Week, there is a need to institute tangible
programs to fully realize the objectives set forth in the aforecited
statutes;
WHEREAS, the activities of programs initiated to mark the celebration
of the milestone achieved for this marginalized sector will focus
on encouraging the person with disability sector in taking proactive roles in nation building.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, President of
the Philippines, by virtue of the power vested in me by law, do
hereby order all heads of departments, bureaus, agencies,
government-owned and/or controlled corporations (GOCCs),
government financial institutions (GFIs), local government units
(LGUs), state universities/colleges and schools, and other
government agencies/instrumentalities to promote and conduct
relevant activities in the annual celebration of the National
Prevention and Rehabilitation week as follows:
SECTION 1., The National Council for the Welfare of Disabled Persons
(NCWDP) will spearhead the holding of a series of activities
involving government and private agencies to highlight the
nation’s efforts towards disability prevention and rehabilitation
leading to the effective integration of persons with disabilities into
the mainstream of society.
SECTION 2., All departments, agencies, offices, GOCCs and LGUs and
51 | P a g e

other government agencies/instrumentalities as well as the mass
media and the entire citizenry are hereby required to extend their
whole-hearted support and cooperation by conducting specific
programs necessary to give effect to this order.
SECTION 3., All public and private welfare agencies are hereby
enjoined to participate and cooperate actively in propagating the
plight of persons with disabilities. Any financial contributions
and/or fund-raising shall be tax-exempt (which shall include the
sweepstakes draw, among others).
SECTION 4., Funding â€“ Funds necessary to carry out the provisions
of this Administrative Order shall be sourced out by the
concerned agencies from the appropriation prescribed under
Section 29 and 31 of the General Appropriation Act of 2002
starting this year. Thereafter and in the ensuing celebrations, all
concerned government agencies shall allocate an amount
equivalent to not less than 1% of their total budget for the year
as provided for under Section 29 & 31 of the 2002 General
Appropriation Act.
SECTION 5., Repealing Clause all orders, issuances, or parts thereof
Inconsistent with this Administrative Order are hereby repealed
or modified accordingly.
SECTION 6., Effectivity. This Administrative Order shall take effect
immediately.
DONE in the City of Manila, this 3rd day of May in the year of Our
Lord, Two Thousand and Two.
(Sgd.) GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO
President of the Philippines
By the President:
(Sgd.) ALBERTO G. ROMULO
Executive Secretary

52 | P a g e

APPENDIX D

53 | P a g e

54 | P a g e

55 | P a g e

APPENDIX E

56 | P a g e

REQUIREMENTS AND GUIDELINES ON LOCAL
OFF-CAMPUS ACTIVITIES
All off-campus activities whether Curricular or Non-Curricular
undertaken by any class, council, club or organization shall require
permission and approval from the Office of Students Affairs, the
Office of the Dean of College and the Office of the School President.
The activities shall include but not be limited to the following:
1. Curricular

a. Educational Tours/Field trips
•
•
•

Visits to reputable firms or government sites and other
areas identified by the concerned local government units
(LGUs) safe for students;
Culture and arts related activities such as visits to
museums, cultural sites, landmarks and other related
venues; or
Plant industry visit, host training establishment visit, and
other related visits.

b. Participation and/or attendance in degree program-relevant
events
c.
Field Study/ Experiential Learning/ Related Learning
Experience
2. Non-Curricular

-mission-based activities (e.g., retreat, recollection, etc.)
conventions, seminars, conferences, symposiums, trainings and
teambuilding;
volunteer work including peer helper programs, relief operations,
community outreach and immersion;
advocacy projects and campaigns;
participation in sports activities;
activities initiated by recognized various student groups;
interschool competitions/tournaments; or
culture and arts performances and competition

57 | P a g e

For the purpose of these guidelines the following terms are defined
as follows: (CMO 63, S. 2017)
Curricular activities are required off-campus activities and are an
integral part of the instructional program. All students are expected
to attend the scheduled off-campus activity since it is part of the
regularly scheduled class time.
a. Educational Tours refer to off-campus learning activities
involving mobility of students with the supervision of authorized
personnel outside the premises of the institution which lasts for
more than one (1) day, and involves relatively more places of
destination than a field trip in accordance with specific degree
program requirements.
b. Field Trips refer to off-campus learning activities involving
mobility of students with the supervision of authorized personnel
outside the premises of the institution but is of relatively shorter
duration usually lasting for only one (1) day and with fewer places
of destination.
c. Field Study/Experiential Learning/Related Learning
Experience refer to off-campus activities which are congruent
to the learning outcomes of the course in terms of time and
context. These activities require substantial off-campus learning
as curriculum delivery.
CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
a. Every curricular activity shall require a permit duly submitted to
the Office of Student Affairs, the Office of the Dean and the Office
of the President.
b. No activity of such nature shall be permitted or allowed during
the schedule of periodical examinations and after 8:30 in the
evening of school days except on Fridays.
c. School equipment and facilities shall only be used upon the
approval of the Personnel In-charge, the Office of Students
Affairs, the Office of the Dean and the Office of the President.
d. No activity of any kind will be permitted without complying to the
following requirements:
58 | P a g e

BEFORE OFF-CAMPUS ACTIVITY
a. Curriculum – The activity must be part of the course syllabus
which reflects the relevance of requiring and educational tour and
field trip.
b. Destination – As much as practicable the destination and
schedule must be relevant to the subject matter. Whenever
necessary for the safety and convenience of the participants,
advance and proper coordination with the local government units
with acknowledged letter from the concerned government
agency shall be secured before the scheduled dates of activity.
c. Participants – All participants must be officially enrolled and
must be included in the official list of participants to be submitted
together with medical clearance duly signed by the School or
Government Physician and a duly notarized/subscribed consent
of Parents or Student’s Guardian.
d. Personnel-in-charge (PIC) – There must be a personnel-incharge designated with appropriate qualifications and training
related to off-campus activities with the ratio of 1 PIC is to 35-50
student participants (1:35-50). The PIC must be an employee of
the institution and when necessary, and there must be an
identified over-all leader among the PIC’s.
e. First Aid Kit – The institution must provide a complete first aid
kit.
f. Fees – Students should only be charge for actual cost of
transportation, entrance fees and other related expenses
necessary in the conduct of the activity. All fees must be duly
approved and disseminated to concerned stakeholders and must
be properly accounted for.
g. Insurance – The institution must provide an insurance
(individual or group) provision for students, faculty and all other
concerned stake holders, for the purpose of the activity.
h. Transportation – All participants must be transported using a
vehicle with an updated/valid document pertaining to
registration, insurance coverage, assurance of road worthiness
and other certification applicable for the activity to be driven by
a driver with a valid/updated Driver’s License.

59 | P a g e

DURING OFF-CAMPUS ACTIVITY

Personnel-in-charge must:
•
•
•

Accompany and ensure the safety of student participants
from the time they assemble for the off-campus activity up to
debriefing.
Ensure the provision of the allowable seating capacity of the
vehicle/s used.
Ensure that program of activities is properly followed as
planned or activities can be adjusted as the need arises.

AFTER OFF-CAMPUS ACTIVITY

Participants must:
•
•
•
•

Submit a learning journal (students).
Submit an assessment/evaluation report (faculty/PIC)
Submit an expenditure report
Conduct debriefing to students to be able to asses acquisition
of learning (Faculty/PIC) .

NON-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
•
•
•

•

Holding activities of such nature during school day/s shall be
prohibited unless officially declared as a college or
department day/s.
Activities should not be scheduled on the week or a week
before the scheduled periodical examinations.
Permits for activities must be obtain from the Office of
Students Affairs a week prior to the schedule activity and shall
be approved by the Office of Students Affairs, the Office of
the Dean and the Office of the President.
No activity of any kind will be permitted without complying to
the same requirements in conducting a curricular activity.

60 | P a g e

APPENDIX E

61 | P a g e

62 | P a g e

63 | P a g e

THE BOARD OF TRUSTESS AS THE GOVERNING BODY
Created under Municipal Ordinance No. 5 s. 1987 and
amended by Municipal Ordinance No. 3 s. 2005

Executive Chairman
College President
Chairman, Committee on Education
Retired Teachers Representative
Professional Group Representative
Workers Group Representative
Barangays Group Representative
Municipal Treasurer
BOT Secretary

64 | P a g e

ACC HYMN
Abuyog Community College
The emblem of love and devotion
Our hope for future ambition
To thee we’ll always arise.
Your dear sons and daughters
To thee our love is always
So long live
Abuyog Community College.
(Repeat 3x)

65 | P a g e

